README.md, before:

# fluentrest-ts

A lightweight, chainable TypeScript API testing library inspired by Java's RestAssured. Built with Axios, JSONPath, and Joi for schema validation.

---

##  Installation

```bash
npm install fluentrest-ts
```

---

##  Basic Usage

```ts
import { fluentRest } from 'fluentrest-ts';

const response = await fluentRest()
  .setBaseUrl("https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com")
  .givenHeader("Accept", "application/json")
  .whenGet("/posts/1");

response
  .thenExpectStatus(200)
  .thenExpectBody("$.id", 1);
```

> ❗️ Note: `thenExpectX` methods require the result of a request (you must `await` the `whenX()` call).

---

##  Convenience: Send and Assert in One Step

Use `sendAndExpect()` when you want to skip the variable and assert directly:

```ts
await fluentRest()
  .setBaseUrl("https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com")
  .sendAndExpect("post", "/posts", res => {
    res
      .thenExpectStatus(201)
      .thenExpectBody("$.title", "foo");
  }, {
    headers: { "Content-Type": "application/json" },
    body: { title: "foo", body: "bar", userId: 1 }
  });
```

---

##  Example: Dynamic Method with Query Params

```ts
await fluentRest()
  .setBaseUrl("https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com")
  .sendAndExpect("get", "/posts", res => {
    res.thenExpectStatus(200);
  }, {
    params: { userId: 1 }
  });
```

---

##  Global Defaults

```ts
import { configureDefaults } from 'fluentrest-ts';

configureDefaults({
  timeout: 30000,
  logLevel: 'debug',
  logFilePath: 'logs/my-run.log',
});
```

Or from `.env`:
- `RA_TIMEOUT`
- `RA_LOG_LEVEL`
- `RA_LOG_FILE`
- `RA_BASE_URL`

---

##  Chainable Methods

| Method                        | Description                              |
|------------------------------|------------------------------------------|
| `.setBaseUrl(url)`           | Set base URL for the request             |
| `.givenHeader(k, v)`         | Add custom headers                       |
| `.givenQueryParam(k, v)`     | Add query string values                  |
| `.givenBody(obj)`            | Add JSON request body                    |
| `.givenFormData(fields)`     | Attach form data or files                |
| `.whenGet(url)`              | Send a GET request                       |
| `.whenPost(url)`             | Send a POST request                      |
| `.whenPut(url)`              | Send a PUT request                       |
| `.whenPatch(url)`            | Send a PATCH request                     |
| `.whenDelete(url)`           | Send a DELETE request                    |
| `.thenExpectStatus(code)`    | Assert HTTP status code                  |
| `.thenExpectHeader(k, v)`    | Assert response header value             |
| `.thenExpectBody(path, val)` | Assert a value via JSONPath              |
| `.thenValidateBody(schema)`  | Validate response body using Joi         |
| `.thenExtract(path)`         | Extract a value from response body       |
| `.getResponse()`             | Get full Axios response object           |
| `.catchAndLog(fn)`           | Log and rethrow user-defined assertion   |
| `.sendAndExpect(...)`        | One-shot request + assertion helper      |

---

##  Logging

```ts
await fluentRest()
  .enableFileLogging()
  .setLogLevel("debug")
  .whenGet("/posts/1")
  .thenExpectStatus(200);
```

**Log Levels:**
- `'debug'` – request + response + assertions
- `'info'` – request + response
- `'none'` – silent

Logs are grouped by worker for test runners like Playwright or Vitest.

---

##  Example with Variable + Extract

```ts
import { fluentRest } from 'fluentrest-ts';

const post = await fluentRest()
  .setBaseUrl("https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com")
  .givenBody({ title: "foo", body: "bar", userId: 1 })
  .whenPost("/posts");

const id = post.thenExtract("$.id");

const verify = await fluentRest()
  .setBaseUrl("https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com")
  .whenGet(`/posts/${id}`);

verify.thenExpectStatus(200);
```

---

##  Designed For

- TypeScript-first API testing
- Playwright / Jest / Vitest / Mocha
- CI/CD pipelines (GitHub Actions, GitLab, etc.)
- Fluent and clear test syntax

---

##  Dependencies

| Package        | Purpose                           |
|----------------|-----------------------------------|
| Axios          | HTTP client                       |
| JSONPath-Plus  | Flexible JSON extraction          |
| Joi            | Schema validation                 |
| Form-Data      | Multipart/form-data support       |
| Chalk          | Terminal logging colors           |

---

##  License

MIT – Use, extend, and enjoy!

Commit message:

updating the readme.md file

README.md, after:

# fluentrest-ts

A lightweight, chainable TypeScript API testing library inspired by Java's RestAssured. Built with Axios, JSONPath, and Joi for schema validation.

---

##  Installation

```bash
npm install fluentrest-ts
```

---

##  Basic Usage

```ts
import { fluentRest } from 'fluentrest-ts';

const response = await fluentRest()
  .setBaseUrl("https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com")
  .givenHeader("Accept", "application/json")
  .whenGet("/posts/1");

response
  .thenExpectStatus(200)
  .thenExpectBody("$.id", 1);
```

> ❗️ Note: `thenExpectX` methods require the result of a request (you must `await` the `whenX()` call).

---

##  Convenience: Send and Assert in One Step

Use `sendAndExpect()` when you want to skip the variable and assert directly:

```ts
await fluentRest()
  .setBaseUrl("https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com")
  .sendAndExpect("post", "/posts", res => {
    res
      .thenExpectStatus(201)
      .thenExpectBody("$.title", "foo");
  }, {
    headers: { "Content-Type": "application/json" },
    body: { title: "foo", body: "bar", userId: 1 }
  });
```

---

##  Example: Dynamic Method with Query Params

```ts
await fluentRest()
  .setBaseUrl("https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com")
  .sendAndExpect("get", "/posts", res => {
    res.thenExpectStatus(200);
  }, {
    params: { userId: 1 }
  });
```

---

##  Global Defaults

```ts
import { configureDefaults } from 'fluentrest-ts';

configureDefaults({
  timeout: 30000,
  logLevel: 'debug',
  logFilePath: 'logs/my-run.log',
});
```

Or from `.env`:
- `RA_TIMEOUT`
- `RA_LOG_LEVEL`
- `RA_LOG_FILE`
- `RA_BASE_URL`

> ❗️ Important: If you use this method, make sure the .env file is loaded before importing any part of the library.
    If .env is loaded too late, the library will fall back to its default values (e.g., logLevel = "info").
---

##  Chainable Methods

| Method                        | Description                              |
|------------------------------|------------------------------------------|
| `.setBaseUrl(url)`           | Set base URL for the request             |
| `.givenHeader(k, v)`         | Add custom headers                       |
| `.givenQueryParam(k, v)`     | Add query string values                  |
| `.givenBody(obj)`            | Add JSON request body                    |
| `.givenFormData(fields)`     | Attach form data or files                |
| `.whenGet(url)`              | Send a GET request                       |
| `.whenPost(url)`             | Send a POST request                      |
| `.whenPut(url)`              | Send a PUT request                       |
| `.whenPatch(url)`            | Send a PATCH request                     |
| `.whenDelete(url)`           | Send a DELETE request                    |
| `.thenExpectStatus(code)`    | Assert HTTP status code                  |
| `.thenExpectHeader(k, v)`    | Assert response header value             |
| `.thenExpectBody(path, val)` | Assert a value via JSONPath              |
| `.thenValidateBody(schema)`  | Validate response body using Joi         |
| `.thenExtract(path)`         | Extract a value from response body       |
| `.getResponse()`             | Get full Axios response object           |
| `.catchAndLog(fn)`           | Log and rethrow user-defined assertion   |
| `.sendAndExpect(...)`        | One-shot request + assertion helper      |

---

##  Logging

```ts
await fluentRest()
  .enableFileLogging()
  .setLogLevel("debug")
  .whenGet("/posts/1")
  .thenExpectStatus(200);
```

**Log Levels:**
- `'debug'` – request + response + assertions
- `'info'` – request + response
- `'none'` – silent

Logs are grouped by worker for test runners like Playwright or Vitest.

---

##  Example with Variable + Extract

```ts
import { fluentRest } from 'fluentrest-ts';

const post = await fluentRest()
  .setBaseUrl("https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com")
  .givenBody({ title: "foo", body: "bar", userId: 1 })
  .whenPost("/posts");

const id = post.thenExtract("$.id");

const verify = await fluentRest()
  .setBaseUrl("https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com")
  .whenGet(`/posts/${id}`);

verify.thenExpectStatus(200);
```

---

##  Designed For

- TypeScript-first API testing
- Playwright / Jest / Vitest / Mocha
- CI/CD pipelines (GitHub Actions, GitLab, etc.)
- Fluent and clear test syntax

---

##  Dependencies

| Package        | Purpose                           |
|----------------|-----------------------------------|
| Axios          | HTTP client                       |
| JSONPath-Plus  | Flexible JSON extraction          |
| Joi            | Schema validation                 |
| Form-Data      | Multipart/form-data support       |
| Chalk          | Terminal logging colors           |

---

##  License

MIT – Use, extend, and enjoy!
